# AIRGEAD-BANKING

PROMPT:  Create an investment calculating application
The task at hand is to create an application that allows for user interaction to calculate a banking investment of the user's choosing.  The user will be able to input their initial investment, number of years on the investment, interest rate, and the monthly deposits if any.  We were required to print an interactive screen where the user could input the following information.  Then after the user is redirected to two output screens, for this project, we had to calculate the amount and annual earned interest for the option of with deposits and the option of without deposits.  So the two output screens would print the data respectively to each choice.  The application's overall functionality is to let users know how their investment will grow over time.  

What did you do particularly well?:
On this project, I did well with the class declaration and the class initialization.  I used header files to declare the two classes that I was using which was one for the banking data and another simpler class for the data calculation.  This overall made the code easier to work with as well as easier to go back and fix some mistakes that I may have made.  Creating the banking data class made the most sense especially since we need to use different user inputs to calculate various investments having a class that can encapsulate Since this project was object orientated I had to utilize classes as well as setter and getter methods to obtain the user input and utilize it in the other functioning methods that I had to implement such as the calculations.  Something else I believe that I did well was creating the output screens and utilizing various syntax methods for printing items such as a large amount of the same characters as well as keeping titles aligned and the data aligned as well.  I could have implemented a better way for maintaining alignment however I just used C++ functions such as setfill() and setw()

Where could you enhance your code? How would these improvements make your code more efficient, secure, and so on?:
One thing I could do to enhance my code is to make some printing methods more efficient such as creating a function itself to print the data input screen.  Another thing that I could have done better is to get the data Input screen to output all the information simultaneously.  Currently, the application has some input validation where if you enter any other character besides a digit then it will not input and report a message saying that the input is incorrect.  However, there is a lag in the input after entering an incorrect character, the cin doesn't intake the next input right away and this is something I wish that I could have improved on.  I also want to improve on creating pointers in my programs as well as implementing classes.  I feel fairly comfortable creating and defining classes as well as functions created using classes, however, I want to work on this with more efficiency.  

Which pieces of the code did you find most challenging to write, and how did you overcome this? What tools or resources are you adding to your support network?:
The Pieces of code that I found most challenging were defining functions within classes.  Creating a class and using object orientation was challenging to me at first however the more that I worked with classes, the more comfortable I started to feel.  Something that helped me was going back and reviewing the notes and previous projects that I have worked on that utilized object-orientated programs.  The most effective strategy that I have used was practicing other problems to enhance my understanding of the functionality of using a class and defining class functions as well as using them in your main program using user input.  I also watched many other programmers and professors work on similar problems which helped me to understand better how to implement and use a class.  Another thing that I struggled with was the logic around some of the for loops that I used because the math was not adding up which means I was incorrectly iterating through the years and months in the loop calculation.  Something that I did to help with that was writing everything out in a flowchart which helped clear things up and where I had to update variables as well as when to update them.  

What skills from this project will be particularly transferable to other projects or coursework?:
One thing that I can take from this project is the use of OOP or object-orientated programming.  We had to use classes and define these classes with various functions.  Most of these functions were setter and getter methods used to get and assign data to a variable that can be used in the main program.  This project is math-based and based on various inputs from the user so we had to create setter and getter methods to get and assign variables with the user's input.  This was a very important concept to become familiar with especially to help with program organization as well as being able to modify the program easier than having a lot of redundant and long-filled code.  Knowing how to build and use a class can help programmers become more flexible in their coding as well as build complex data models.  It also allows for the creation of objects which can help see the program in a more real-life way which makes the coding make more sense and turn out to function better.  Creating functions will also be something vital to take from the project because functions can help separate code and make it easier to revise.  Functions can also make your code simpler and easier to use in your main function.  

How did you make this program maintainable, readable, and adaptable?:
I believe that I made this code very clear and simple to understand. I used header files to declare the class and functions that I was using.  Then I created separate cpp files to define the functions of the class and what their purpose was such as my setter and getter methods and what they would be set to as well as where they would be taken from.  I also created a separate class for calculations and defined the calculations using 2 methods which were written out as well.  The main program has as little as possible, however I should have created a function for printing the menu loop.  These separate files help for more readability as well as make it less complicated to work with this program and revise it as needed.  The code should be very maintainable because you can review each class in its own file as well as its declaration.  This project is adaptable because more functions could be added and certain things could be changed without crashing the entire code.  




